Loom docs (#278)
FabricMC/fabric-docs: develop/loom/production-run-tasks.md

---

> title: Production run tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Production Run Tasks
```

description: Documentation for the production run tasks in the Fabric Loom Gradle plugin.

> authors:
>   - modmuss50
> ---
> 
> # Production Run Tasks {#options}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authors:
  - modmuss50
  - kb-1000
  - Juuxel
  - Atakku
  - SolidBlock-cn
authors-nogithub:
  - jamieswhiteshirt
  - daomephsta
  - caoimhe
---
```

> When building your mod to distribute to users it gets remapped to intermediary mappings, this presents some small diffrences between the development environment and production (e.g the vanilla launcher). While it's rare for there to be issues, it makes sense to test your mod in a production environment before releasing it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When building your mod to distribute to users, it gets remapped to intermediary mappings, which cause slight inconsistencies between the development environment and production (like the vanilla launcher). Although such issues are rare, it makes sense to test your mod in a production environment before releasing it.
```

    // A list of additional program arguments to pass to the game.
    programArgs.add("--example")

    // The directory to run the game in.
    runDir = file("run")

    // Specify the Java toolchain to use when running the game.
    // Defaults to the Java version being used to run Gradle.
    // See https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/toolchains.html#sec:plugins_toolchains
    javaLauncher = javaToolchains.launcherFor {
        languageVersion = JavaLanguageVersion.of(21)
    }
}
```

## Server {#server}

The server production run task uses the same server launcher that you download from the Fabric website, guaranteeing that the environment is as close to production as possible.

```groovy
tasks.register("prodServer", net.fabricmc.loom.task.prod.ServerProductionRunTask) {
    // The version of the Fabric Installer to use. This must be specified.
    installerVersion = "1.0.1"

    // The version of Fabric Loader to use.
    // Defaults to the version of Fabric Loader that the project is using.
    loaderVersion = "0.16.10"

    // The version of Minecraft to use.
    // Defaults to the version of Minecraft that the project is using.
    minecraftVersion = "1.21.4"
}
```

> The server task has the unique abbility to run your mod with a different version of Minecraft, this might be useful if you are developing a cross version mod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server task has the unique ability to run your mod with a different version of Minecraft, this might be useful if you are developing a cross-versions mod.
```
